Bb chapter 3 (#692)
mlr-org/mlr3book: book/chapters/chapter3/evaluation_and_benchmarking.qmd

The concept of `r index("performance estimation")` provides information on how well a model will generalize to new data and plays an important role in the context of model comparison (@sec-benchmarking), model selection, and hyperparameter tuning (@sec-optimization).

Assessing the generalization performance of a model begins with selecting a `r index("performance measure")` that is appropriate for our given task and evaluation goal.

> As we have seen in @sec-eval, performance measures typically compute a numeric score indicating how well the model predictions match the ground truth (though some more technical measures were seen in @sec-basics-measures-tech).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we have seen in @sec-eval, performance measures typically compute a numeric score indicating how well the model predictions match the ground truth (though some technical measures were seen in @sec-basics-measures-tech).
```

```

The `$prediction()` method can be used to extract a single `Prediction` object that combines the predictions of each intermediate model across all resampling iterations.

> The combined prediction object can, for example, be used to manually compute a micro-averaged performance estimate.
> (But see @sec-resampling-exec on how to do micro-averaging more conveniently.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The combined prediction object can, for example, be used to manually compute a micro-averaged performance estimate (see @sec-resampling-exec for how to you can micro-average more conveniently).
```

The ROC curve is a line graph with TPR on the y-axis and the FPR on the x-axis.
To understand the usefulness of this curve, first consider the simple case of a hard labeling classifier (`predict_type = "response"`) that classifies observations as either positive or negative.
This classifier would be represented as a single point in the ROC space (see @fig-roc, panel (a)).
The best classifier would lie on the top-left corner where the TPR is $1$ and the FPR is $0$.
Classifiers on the diagonal predict class labels randomly (with different class proportions).
For example, if each positive instance will be randomly classified (ignoring features) with 25% as the positive class, we would obtain a TPR of 0.25.
If we assign each negative instance randomly to the positive class, we would have an FPR of 0.25.
In practice, we should never obtain a classifier below the diagonal and a point in the ROC space below the diagonal might indicate that the positive and negative class labels have been switched by the classifier.

```{r performance-054, echo = FALSE, fig.height = 3.5, fig.width = 8}
#| label: fig-roc

> #| fig-cap: "Panel (a): ROC space with best discrete classifier, two baseline classifiers -- one that always predicts the positive class and one that never predicts the positive class -- and three \"real\" classifiers C1, C2, C3. We cannot say if C1 or C3 is better than the other as both are better in one metric. C2 is clearly worse than C1 and C3, which are better in at least one metric than C2 while not being worse in any other metric. Panel (b): ROC curves of the best classifier (AUC = 1), of a random guessing classifier (AUC = 0.5), and the classifiers C1, C3, and C2."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#| fig-cap: "Panel (a): ROC space with best discrete classifier, two baseline classifiers -- one that always predicts the positive class and one that never predicts the positive class -- and three 'real' classifiers C1, C2, C3. We cannot say if C1 or C3 is better than the other as both are better in one metric. C2 is clearly worse than C1 and C3, which are better in at least one metric than C2 while not being worse in any other metric. Panel (b): ROC curves of the best classifier (AUC = 1), of a random guessing classifier (AUC = 0.5), and the classifiers C1, C3, and C2."
```
